Project: Coffeehouse Exchange (ChX)
Members: Richard Jiang Yang. Willy Hay Wolfe, Dev Jhaveri, Sri Yenamandra
Challenge to be solved: A large inefficiency exists in the financial world regarding venture capital raising. Many mom-and-pop shops, small artisans, and small business owners offer amazing services and goods, but struggle to expand past their local areas due to a shortage of micro-capital availability and small market reach. With Coffeehouse Exchange, we hope to bridge this gap and allow smaller companies, often reliant on their founders and few key members, to expand past their geographic and size confines.
Methodology: Coffeehouse Exchange allows smaller companies to access micro-capital in order to fund smaller investment opportunities. Furthermore, Coffeehouse Exchange uses market forces to select out the investment opportunities and small companies with the most exciting and promising products. These small companies are then given visibility to larger corporations with expansive resources and networks, where further relationships can be established to benefit both the small and larger companies. To accomplish this, we first have smaller companies create ventures on our platform. These ventures can be anything, from small microloans to larger capital raisings. The smaller companies need to make these ventures detailed and enticing enough to attract smaller individual investors to invest into them, and these capital raisings can take one of two forms: 1) Debt and 2) Venture Equity. Debt is very simple, and a percentage of the debt issued is guaranteed through Coffeehouse Exchange based on the smaller company’s believability and loan amount. Venture Equity is more complicated, and is not guaranteed through Coffeehouse Exchange at all. Unlike corporate equity, venture equity does not represent ownership of any part of a corporation, but rather only ownership in the intellectual property and income generated by a venture undertaken by the smaller companies. We align incentives by asking that each small company to provide their EIN number as well as important information (including the SSN) of a key person within the small company. We then run simple checks on the EIN and SSN received before approving the small company to post ventures. Then, we rank small companies based on their believability based on past performance (detailed later), so the small companies must start with small ventures (mostly through small debt offerings) and work their way up to larger venture capital raisings. Our algorithms also sort small companies based on interest, location, and industry categories for individual investors to easily find investment opportunities.  Furthermore, we then have these rankings available to larger corporations, who can then contact the smaller businesses through our platform.
Analytics: We rank both individual investors based on seniority and small companies by previous debt and venture equity issues, as well as current venture equity issues. We proxy individual investor seniority with money invested in equity and debt issues, as well as the age of the account (at a much lower seniority weight). We rank small companies by feedback from individual investors of previous venture equity issues, returns from previous venture equity issues, feedback from large corporations on large corporation-small company relationship/join ventures, amount of money raised from current venture equity issues (to proxy for excitement/hype around a good or service being invested in currently), and previous debt repayments.
